# Task Manager App
- I created this desktop application using Python in virtual studio. I used tkinter to build the basic GUI framework, hex codes to color the buttons, and upon closing the app, the list of tasks is saved to a json file. When entering a task, the user is prompted to enter a name for the task, a priority level (selected from a "High", "Medium", or "Low" button, a due date in YYYY-MM-DD format using the datetime library, and a category which can be whatever the user wants. Upon entering the task, it will pop up in the list box, with a corresponding priority level, due date, category, and an overdue message if the date has passed. If the user copmpletes the task, they can click on it in the list box and click the "Mark Complete" button, which will mark the task as complete in the list. The user can also select to remove the task, as well as edit the task. Id "Edit Task" is selected, the user can change the name, due date, priority level, or category and then click "Update Task" to complete the process. With multiple tasks in the list, the user can choose to sort the tasks by due date, starting with the closest upcoming (or furthest overdue) date. "Filter by Category" can also be selected to only display tasks of a certain category. Lastly, the user can opt to remove all tasks from the list, and a warning message will pop up notifying the user that this action cannot be undone. If this action proceeds, all data is wiped from the json file and the list is cleared.
